What is file ?
A file is a collection of related information that is recorded on secondary storage. 
A File is a collection of logically related entities.
From user’s perspective a file is the smallest allotment of logical secondary storage
The name  of the file is divided into two parts as shown below: 
1. name
2. extension, separated by a period.

File Attributes:
----------------
Name: It is the only information stored in a human-readable form.
Identifier: Every file is identified by a unique tag number within a file system known as an identifier.
Location: Points to file location on device.
Type: This attribute is required for systems that support various types of files.
Size. Attribute used to display the current file size.
Protection. This attribute assigns and controls the access rights of reading, writing, and executing the file.
Time, date and security: It is used for protection, security, and also used for monitoring


What is FileSystem ?
A file system is a process of managing how and where data on a storage disk, which is also referred to as file management or FS.
It is a logical disk component that compresses files separated into groups, which is known as directories.

Other defination of the file:
----------------------------
What are filesystems?
A filesystem is the methods and data structures that an operating system uses to keep track of files on a disk or partition; 
that is, the way the files are organized on the disk. 
The word is also used to refer to a partition or disk that is used to store the files or the type of the filesystem. 
Thus, one might say ``I have two filesystems'' meaning one has two partitions on which one stores files, 
or that one is using the ``extended filesystem'', meaning the type of the filesystem.


Linux File System:
-------------------
A file system is a logical collection of files on a partition or disk. A partition is a container for information and can span an entire hard drive if desired.

Your hard drive can have various partitions which usually contains only one file system, such as one file system housing the / file system or 
another containing the /home file system.

One file system per partition allows for the logical maintenance and management of differing file systems.

Everything in Linux is considered to be a file, including physical devices such as DVD-ROMs, USB devices, floppy drives, and so forth.

Directory Structure:
-------------------
Linux uses a hierarchical file system structure, much like an upside-down tree, with root (/) at the base of the file system and 
all other directories spreading from there.

A LINUX filesystem is a collection of files and directories that has the following properties:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
It has a root directory (/) that contains other files and directories.
Each file or directory is uniquely identified by its name, the directory in which it resides, and a unique identifier, typically called an inode.
By convention, the root directory has an inode number of 2 and the lost+found directory has an inode number of 3. Inode numbers 0 and 1 are not used. 
File inode numbers can be seen by specifying the -i option to ls command.
It is self contained. There are no dependencies between one filesystem and any other.


File Permission:
-----------------
Permission can be divided into three parts: Owner, Group, Other
r: read permission
w: write permission
x: execute permission

Octal values are used to represent permissions.
4 -> read permission
2 -> write permission
1 -> execute permission

Example: If a file have 764 permission it means owner can do all operation on file, 
group can do read and write operation on file and other can read only the file

Interview Questions:
1. What is file in Linux OS?
2. What is the FileSystem in Linux OS?
3. What is difference between FILE and FILESYSTEM ?
4. How you will restrict the Other users from modifing the file ?
5. How you will allow all the group member to access the file ?
