Operating system:
-----------------
An operating system or OS is a software program that enables the computer hardware to communicate and operate with the computer software. 
Without a computer operating system, a computer and software programs would be useless.

An operating system (sometimes abbreviated as "OS") is the program that, after being initially loaded into the computer by a boot program, 
manages all the other programs in a computer. The other programs are called applications or application programs. 
The application programs make use of the operating system by making requests for services through a defined application program interface (API). 
In addition, users can interact directly with the operating system through a user interface such as a command language or a graphical user interface (GUI).

An operating system performs these services for applications:
 In a multitasking operating system where multiple programs can be running at the same time, 
the operating system determines which applications should run in what order and 
how much time should be allowed for each application before giving another application a turn.
 It manages the sharing of internal memory among multiple applications.
 It handles input and output to and from attached hardware devices, such as hard disks, printers, and dial-up ports.
 It sends messages to each application or interactive user (or to a system operator) about the status of operation and any errors that may have occurred.
 It can offload the management of what are called batch jobs (for example, printing) so that the initiating application is freed from this work.
 On computers that can provide parallel processing, an operating system can manage how to divide the program so that it runs on more than one processor at a time.

Examples of computer operating systems
 Redhat – Very popular Linux operating system from Redhat
 Microsoft Windows - PC and IBM compatible operating system. Microsoft Windows is the most commonly found and used operating system in PCs
 Apple MacOS - Apple computer operating system. The only Apple computer operating system.
 Ubuntu Linux - A popular variant of Linux used with PC and IBM compatible computers.
 Google Android - operating system used with Android compatible phones.
 iOS - Operating system used with the Apple iPhone.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

History of Unix/Linux:
-----------------------
1965 Bell Laboratories joins with MIT and General Electric in the development effort for the new operating system, Multics, 
which would provide multi-user, multi-processor, and multi-level (hierarchical) file system, among its many forward-looking features.

1969 AT&T was unhappy with the progress and drops out of the Multics project. 
Some of the Bell Labs programmers who had worked on this project, Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, Rudd Canaday, and 
Doug McIlroy designed and implemented the first version of the Unix File System on a PDP-7 along with a few utilities. 
It was given the name UNIX by Brian Kernighan as a pun on Multics.

1971 The system now runs on a PDP-11, with 16Kbytes of memory, including 8Kbytes for user programs and a 512Kbyte disk.

Its first real use is as a text processing tool for the patent department at Bell Labs. 
That utilization justified further research and development by the programming group. 
UNIX caught on among programmers because it was designed with these features:
• programmers environment
• simple user interface
• simple utilities that can be combined to perform powerful functions
• hierarchical file system
• simple interface to devices consistent with file format
• multi-user, multi-process system
• architecture independent and transparent to the user.

1973 Unix is re-written mostly in C, a new language developed by Dennis Ritchie. 
Being written in this high-level language greatly decreased the effort needed to port it to new machines.
1974 Thompson and Ritchie publish a paper in the Communications of the ACM describing the new Unix OS. 
This generates enthusiasm in the Academic community which sees a potentially great teaching tool for studying programming systems development. 
Since AT&T is prevented from marketing the product due to the 1956 Consent Decree they license it to Universities for educational purposes and to commercial entities.
1977 There are now about 500 Unix sites world-wide.
1980 BSD 4.1 (Berkeley Software Development)
1983 SunOS, BSD 4.2, SysV
1984 There are now about 100,000 Unix sites running on many different hardware platforms, of vastly different capabilities.
1988 AT&T and Sun Microsystems jointly develop System V Release 4 (SVR4). This would later be developed into UnixWare and Solaris 2.
1993 Novell buys UNIX from AT&T
1994 Novell gives the name "UNIX" to X/OPEN
1995 Santa Cruz Operations buys UnixWare from Novell. Santa Cruz Operations and Hewlett-Packard announce that they will jointly develop a 64-bit version of Unix.
1996 International Data Corporation forecasts that in 1997 there will be 3 million Unix systems shipped world-wide.



